Globs in storage file and HDFS (#6092)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/table_engines/hdfs.md

# HDFS {#table_engines-hdfs}

> Manages data on HDFS. This engine is similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This engine provides integration with [Apache Hadoop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Hadoop) ecosystem by allowing to manage data on [HDFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/HdfsDesign.htmll)via ClickHouse. This engine is similar
```

> to the [File](file.md) and [URL](url.md) engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the [File](file.md) and [URL](url.md) engines, but provides Hadoop-specific features.
```

## Usage

```
ENGINE = HDFS(URI, format)
```

> The `format` parameter specifies one of the available file formats. To perform

Reviewer: describe URI parameter as well?

`SELECT` queries, the format must be supported for input, and to perform
`INSERT` queries -- for output. The available formats are listed in the
[Formats](../../interfaces/formats.md#formats) section.

**Example:**

> **1.** Set up the `HDFS_engine_table` table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1.** Set up the `hdfs_engine_table` table:
```

``` sql
CREATE TABLE hdfs_engine_table (name String, value UInt32) ENGINE=HDFS('hdfs://hdfs1:9000/other_storage', 'TSV')
```
**2.** Query the data:

``` sql

> SELECT * FROM hdfs_engine_table LIMIT 2

Reviewer: * Is `INSERT INTO TABLE FUNCTION` supported as well?
* globs example?

Author: Globs supported only in table_functions

Author: Oops, it works! Amazing

```

```
┌─name─┬─value─┐
│ one  │     1 │
│ two  │     2 │
└──────┴───────┘
```

> ## Details of Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Implementation Details
```
